README.md, before:

# Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [About the SPA](#about-the-spa)
- [The Test Access for Guests](#the-test-access-for-guests)
- [The Prerequisites of Creation](#the-prerequisites-of-creation)
- [The Current GUI](#the-current-gui)
- [The List of Planned SPA Functionality](#the-list-of-planned-spa-functionality)
- [The List of Planned Technological Stack](#the-list-of-planned-technological-stack)
  - [Frontend](#frontend)
  - [Backend](#backend)
- [The Instructions](#the-instructions)
  - [How to Run the SPA](#how-to-run-the-spa)
  - [How to Check Code Style](#how-to-check-code-style)
- [The Project Technical Task](#the-project-technical-task)
- [History GD's API](#history-gds-api)
  - [Manuscripts Page](#manuscripts-page)
  - [Auth Process](#auth-process)
- [The Algorithms](#the-algorithms)
  - [The Block Schema of Registration Process](#the-block-schema-of-registration-process)

# About the SPA

**«History of Genius Discovery»** (shortly _«History GD»_) is the scientific portal that was created to help
scientists to keep own manuscripts (e.g., scientific articles,
university manuals, and monographs).

# The Test Access for Guests

<p><b>Login</b>: M.V.Lomonosov@history-gd.ru</p>
<p><b>Password</b>: 123456</p>

# The Prerequisites of Creation

The software is based on following scientific article
containing main software targets and the conception:

**Mosolov R.V. Programma "Istorija genial'nogo otkrytija" //
Elektronnyye biblioteki. 2020. V. 23. No 6. https://doi.org/10.26907/1562-5419-2020-23-6-1239-1278.**

# The Current GUI

At current time, GUI looks so as shown below. This GUI presents
part of project's worked functionality on 04.05.2020 on the left.
![File:GUI at 04.05.2020](./client/src/assets/gui-at-04.05.2020.png 'GUI at 04.05.2020')

# The List of Planned SPA Functionality

1. creating manuscripts;
1. keeping manuscripts as reserve copies in Internet;
1. generating manuscripts to PDF to print them;
1. accumulating big data about manuscripts to search regularities
   of scientific discoveries;
1. scientific self-analysis;
1. et al.

# The List of Planned Technological Stack

## Frontend

| #   |       Technology       |                     Role                      |
| --- | :--------------------: | :-------------------------------------------: |
| 1   |          HTML          |                  Adds layout                  |
| 2   |          CSS           |               Adds stylization                |
| 3   |       JavaScript       |                  Frontend PL                  |
| 4   |       TypeScript       |        Adds strong types to variables         |
| 5   |        Next.js         |    Makes the SPA more familiarity with SEO    |
| 6   |        React.js        |        Main high-level library for JS         |
| 7   |      Material UI       |     Adds templates of frontend components     |
| 8   |      React Router      |         Adds URL paths between pages          |
| 9   |         Redux          |       Manages all SPA states centrally        |
| 10  | Redux Thunk/Redux Saga |             Deletes sides effects             |
| 11  |     GraphQL/Apollo     | Sets strong types for data exchanging with DB |
| 12  |   ESLint + Prettier    |    Check and fix code styles into modules     |
| 13  |       Grunt/Gulp       |          Automates manual operations          |
| 14  |          Jest          |          Tests modules code quality           |

The additional technological stack: Reselect.

## Backend

| #   |   Technology    |                         Role                         |
| --- | :-------------: | :--------------------------------------------------: |
| 1   |     Node.js     |          Main server platform on JS syntax           |
| 1   |     Python      | Server PL to integrate GUI with scientific libraries |
| 2   |   Express.js    |         Main high-level library for Node.js          |
| 3   | Google Firebase |            Main DBMS and hosting for SPA             |
| 4   |     MongoDB     |             2nd DBMS for saving backups              |
| 5   |   PostgreSQL    |             3rd DBMS for saving backups              |
| 6   |       JWT       |    Creates tokens to authenticate an user session    |
| 7   |      Jest       |              Tests modules code quality              |

# The Instructions

## How to Run the SPA

Run following terminal commands from root directory:

1. Firstable, install all the project dependencies:
   1. `npm run install-global`
   1. `npm run install-client`
   1. `npm run install-server`
1. Type in 1st terminal window `npm run client` to render GUI
1. Type in 2nd window terminal `npm run js-server` to run the server in JS
1. Type in 3rd window terminal `npm run py-server` to run the server in Python

Finally, open a browser at: http://localhost:3000/

## How to Check Code Style

`npm run pretty`

# The Project Technical Task

More information about project's technical details, planned
functionality, and planned pages of the SPA:

https://drive.google.com/open?id=1KYWEs8QmNs79tw7Br3JS5j9R07W0w6GC

Also you can to learn statistic of work time that was oriented to
this project:

https://drive.google.com/open?id=1CIHTwmnrYNzT6RYXHrQ99lInUuDib980M8JNQ23s6y4

# History GD's API

## API for Manuscripts Page

| #   | Method |   Endpoint   |     Query      |           Body           |        Role         |
| --- | :----: | :----------: | :------------: | :----------------------: | :-----------------: |
| 1   |  GET   | /manuscripts |   collection   |            –             | Get all manuscripts |
| 3   |  GET   | /manuscripts |       –        |            –             |  Get a manuscript   |
| 2   |  POST  | /manuscripts |   collection   | A manuscript meta info\* |  Post a manuscript  |
| 4   | UPDATE | /manuscripts | collection, id |      title, author       | Update a manuscript |
| 5   | DELETE | /manuscripts | collection, id |            –             | Delete a manuscript |

\* _A manuscript meta info may contains: userId, manuscriptId, title, author, creationDate, type._

## API for Users Page

| #   | Method |        Endpoint        | Query |        Body         |                   Role                   |
| --- | :----: | :--------------------: | :---: | :-----------------: | :--------------------------------------: |
| 1   |  POST  | /users/reset-password  |   –   |        email        |         Reset an user's password         |
| 2   |  POST  |   /users/check-auth    |   –   |   email, password   |      Check user email and password       |
| 3   |  POST  |    /users/main-info    |   –   |   email, password   |    Send main info about an user to DB    |
| 4   |  POST  | /users/additional-info |   –   | An user full info\* | Send main additional about an user to DB |

\* _An user full info may contains: lastName, firstName, middleName, academicDegree, profDegree, researchInterests, university._

## API for Authentication Sessions

| #   | Method |        Endpoint        | Query |      Body       |                      Role                      |
| --- | :----: | :--------------------: | :---: | :-------------: | :--------------------------------------------: |
| 1   |  POST  | /sessions/create-token |   –   | email, password | Create a new token to verify an user's session |
| 2   |  GET   | /sessions/check-token  | token |        –        |  Check that an user's session is not expired   |

## Cases When Should Be Used Authentication Process

Before accessing the following cases, we need to check an user:

1.1. [Manuscripts] reading a manuscript's meta information (going on Manuscripts page);

1.2. [Manuscripts] reading a manuscript's full information (going on Full Manuscript page);

1.3. [Manuscripts] adding a new manuscript;

1.4. [Manuscripts] updating an manuscript;

1.5. [Manuscripts] deleting a manuscript;

2.1-2.5. [Dairy] all CRUD operations with an user diaries;

3.1-3.5. [Scientific Notes] all CRUD operations with an user scientific notes.

The maximum value of authentication token (special unique key of an user
session) duration is **8 hours**. If an user (mostly, a scientist) go on
the web application when he work, this value will be actual for an work
8-hours day.

If after 8 hours the system sees that an user settlement on Add Manuscript
page, the system should be save scientific works in Local Storage of a browser
to minimize probability of scientific heritage's lost.

# The Algorithms

## The Block Schema of Registration Process

![The Block Schema of Registration Process](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/history-gd-cfc68.appspot.com/o/software-docs%2FHistory%20GD.%20Registration%20Logic.png?alt=media&token=edf344be-47f9-46e6-98ca-95d55edec44b)

Commit message:

Connect Storybook simple UI-components to client side of SPA

README.md, after:

# Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [About the SPA](#about-the-spa)
- [The Test Access for Guests](#the-test-access-for-guests)
- [The Prerequisites of Creation](#the-prerequisites-of-creation)
- [The Current GUI](#the-current-gui)
- [The List of Planned SPA Functionality](#the-list-of-planned-spa-functionality)
- [The List of Planned Technological Stack](#the-list-of-planned-technological-stack)
  - [Frontend](#frontend)
  - [Backend](#backend)
- [The Instructions](#the-instructions)
  - [How to Run the SPA](#how-to-run-the-spa)
  - [How to Check Code Style](#how-to-check-code-style)
- [The Project Technical Task](#the-project-technical-task)
- [History GD's API](#history-gds-api)
  - [Manuscripts Page](#manuscripts-page)
  - [Auth Process](#auth-process)
- [The Algorithms](#the-algorithms)
  - [The Block Schema of Registration Process](#the-block-schema-of-registration-process)

# About the SPA

**«History of Genius Discovery»** (shortly _«History GD»_) is the scientific portal that was created to help
scientists to keep own manuscripts (e.g., scientific articles,
university manuals, and monographs).

# The Test Access for Guests

<p><b>Login</b>: M.V.Lomonosov@history-gd.ru</p>
<p><b>Password</b>: 123456</p>

# The Prerequisites of Creation

The software is based on following scientific article
containing main software targets and the conception:

**Mosolov R.V. Programma "Istorija genial'nogo otkrytija" //
Elektronnyye biblioteki. 2020. V. 23. No 6. https://doi.org/10.26907/1562-5419-2020-23-6-1239-1278.**

# The Current GUI

At current time, GUI looks so as shown below. This GUI presents
part of project's worked functionality on 04.05.2020 on the left.
![File:GUI at 04.05.2020](./client/src/assets/gui-at-04.05.2020.png 'GUI at 04.05.2020')

# The List of Planned SPA Functionality

1. creating manuscripts;
1. keeping manuscripts as reserve copies in Internet;
1. generating manuscripts to PDF to print them;
1. accumulating big data about manuscripts to search regularities
   of scientific discoveries;
1. scientific self-analysis;
1. et al.

# The List of Planned Technological Stack

## Frontend

| #   |       Technology       |                     Role                      |
| --- | :--------------------: | :-------------------------------------------: |
| 1   |          HTML          |                  Adds layout                  |
| 2   |          CSS           |               Adds stylization                |
| 3   |       JavaScript       |                  Frontend PL                  |
| 4   |       TypeScript       |        Adds strong types to variables         |
| 5   |        Next.js         |    Makes the SPA more familiarity with SEO    |
| 6   |        React.js        |        Main high-level library for JS         |
| 7   |      Material UI       |     Adds templates of frontend components     |
| 8   |      React Router      |         Adds URL paths between pages          |
| 9   |         Redux          |       Manages all SPA states centrally        |
| 10  | Redux Thunk/Redux Saga |             Deletes sides effects             |
| 11  |     GraphQL/Apollo     | Sets strong types for data exchanging with DB |
| 12  |   ESLint + Prettier    |    Check and fix code styles into modules     |
| 13  |       Grunt/Gulp       |          Automates manual operations          |
| 14  |          Jest          |          Tests modules code quality           |

The additional technological stack: Reselect.

## Backend

| #   |   Technology    |                         Role                         |
| --- | :-------------: | :--------------------------------------------------: |
| 1   |     Node.js     |          Main server platform on JS syntax           |
| 1   |     Python      | Server PL to integrate GUI with scientific libraries |
| 2   |   Express.js    |         Main high-level library for Node.js          |
| 3   | Google Firebase |            Main DBMS and hosting for SPA             |
| 4   |     MongoDB     |             2nd DBMS for saving backups              |
| 5   |   PostgreSQL    |             3rd DBMS for saving backups              |
| 6   |       JWT       |    Creates tokens to authenticate an user session    |
| 7   |      Jest       |              Tests modules code quality              |

# The Instructions

## How to Run the SPA

Run following terminal commands from root directory:

1. Firstable, install all the project dependencies:
   1. `npm run install-global`
   1. `npm run install-client`
   1. `npm run install-ui-components`
   1. `npm run install-server`
1. Type in 1st terminal window `npm run client` to render GUI
1. Type in 2nd terminal window `npm run ui-components` to render UI-components
1. Type in 3rd terminal window `npm run js-server` to run the server in JS
1. Type in 4th terminal window `npm run py-server` to run the server in Python

Finally, open a browser at:
– http://localhost:3000/;
– http://localhost:6006/.

## How to Check Code Style

`npm run pretty`

# The Project Technical Task

More information about project's technical details, planned
functionality, and planned pages of the SPA:

https://drive.google.com/open?id=1KYWEs8QmNs79tw7Br3JS5j9R07W0w6GC

Also you can to learn statistic of work time that was oriented to
this project:

https://drive.google.com/open?id=1CIHTwmnrYNzT6RYXHrQ99lInUuDib980M8JNQ23s6y4

# History GD's API

## API for Manuscripts Page

| #   | Method |   Endpoint   |     Query      |           Body           |        Role         |
| --- | :----: | :----------: | :------------: | :----------------------: | :-----------------: |
| 1   |  GET   | /manuscripts |   collection   |            –             | Get all manuscripts |
| 3   |  GET   | /manuscripts |       –        |            –             |  Get a manuscript   |
| 2   |  POST  | /manuscripts |   collection   | A manuscript meta info\* |  Post a manuscript  |
| 4   | UPDATE | /manuscripts | collection, id |      title, author       | Update a manuscript |
| 5   | DELETE | /manuscripts | collection, id |            –             | Delete a manuscript |

\* _A manuscript meta info may contains: userId, manuscriptId, title, author, creationDate, type._

## API for Users Page

| #   | Method |        Endpoint        | Query |        Body         |                   Role                   |
| --- | :----: | :--------------------: | :---: | :-----------------: | :--------------------------------------: |
| 1   |  POST  | /users/reset-password  |   –   |        email        |         Reset an user's password         |
| 2   |  POST  |   /users/check-auth    |   –   |   email, password   |      Check user email and password       |
| 3   |  POST  |    /users/main-info    |   –   |   email, password   |    Send main info about an user to DB    |
| 4   |  POST  | /users/additional-info |   –   | An user full info\* | Send main additional about an user to DB |

\* _An user full info may contains: lastName, firstName, middleName, academicDegree, profDegree, researchInterests, university._

## API for Authentication Sessions

| #   | Method |        Endpoint        | Query |      Body       |                      Role                      |
| --- | :----: | :--------------------: | :---: | :-------------: | :--------------------------------------------: |
| 1   |  POST  | /sessions/create-token |   –   | email, password | Create a new token to verify an user's session |
| 2   |  GET   | /sessions/check-token  | token |        –        |  Check that an user's session is not expired   |

## Cases When Should Be Used Authentication Process

Before accessing the following cases, we need to check an user:

1.1. [Manuscripts] reading a manuscript's meta information (going on Manuscripts page);

1.2. [Manuscripts] reading a manuscript's full information (going on Full Manuscript page);

1.3. [Manuscripts] adding a new manuscript;

1.4. [Manuscripts] updating an manuscript;

1.5. [Manuscripts] deleting a manuscript;

2.1-2.5. [Dairy] all CRUD operations with an user diaries;

3.1-3.5. [Scientific Notes] all CRUD operations with an user scientific notes.

The maximum value of authentication token (special unique key of an user
session) duration is **8 hours**. If an user (mostly, a scientist) go on
the web application when he work, this value will be actual for an work
8-hours day.

If after 8 hours the system sees that an user settlement on Add Manuscript
page, the system should be save scientific works in Local Storage of a browser
to minimize probability of scientific heritage's lost.

# The Algorithms

## The Block Schema of Registration Process

![The Block Schema of Registration Process](https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/history-gd-cfc68.appspot.com/o/software-docs%2FHistory%20GD.%20Registration%20Logic.png?alt=media&token=edf344be-47f9-46e6-98ca-95d55edec44b)
